excellent
and we'll start recording with YouTube
as well
you
okay hello and welcome to the weekly
ipfs call my name is Portia thank you
for joining us in this call we get a
chance to see all the wonderful things
that are being built in the ipfs
community and today we have Olivier from
Panda and he's going to tell us how
Pando uses ipfs and he can correct me if
I'm wrong I believe Pando serves solves
many problems one and it works with open
source so I think it's like an
alternative to github it also has like
an incentive motives for people to build
so it uses smart contracts and I believe
it's also built on top of Aragon and I
believe it is open to all contributors
and not just developers so I will let
alleviate take it from here
yay yeah hi everyone
annual yummy yep yeah right thanks
thanks for your presentation and sick
for the invite hello yes
ooh yummy
well I think yeah I think that's just
some Porsches and I can hear you fine
okay so yeah the ieast you to talk to
you they'll all about fondle I'm gonna
try to share my screen I'm not sure it's
working
can you see the slides now
yes okay very cool so yeah basically
what is follow I don't make sure about
it but it's kind of distributed there in
system based on IP FS IP LD and Aragon
in ECM is to decentralize get out as
much as possible even though obviously
in the short term some things are going
to be complicated to implement in the
fully decentralized way a bit yeah the
IDS to provide and as much functional as
possible alternative to new job pretty
soon on the long run being given to
provide decentralized alternative to get
because we figured out developing
follows that it was not really suited
for decentralized workflow mainly
because of the whole idea of maintainer
its relying on so at the beginning we
started developing a whole new version
tracking system and alternative to gate
but most of the people in the community
told the security just to keep using it
because you know all our choose rely on
it and also please make Ando compatible
with it and bait on it so we kind of
reorganized and we factored the code to
make photo compatible with it actually
Pandu is kind of a geek Moodle per for
now but we are still working for a no
long term goal to provide some kind of
an alternative to get which will be in
what way more web finale but and yeah so
yeah there it is to provide the
centralization to be dev at least in the
short term architectural the
centralization so well how it worked
it's pretty simple I would explain you
guys oh I care facility works and so
yeah basically each time you want to
push your commits in the centralized way
we rely on the IP LV it's
resolver so all the files are uploaded
to ipfs the get objects are translated
into an IP le me to object and purply to
ipfs to ping and then we take the ash
I peel the ash of the new Edie and we
just try to stir it unchain on a small
small contract which is in Dubai an
Oregon da so this is pretty cool because
it means that the gas ghosts on tearing
em to install your wall the ocean
tracking mechanism is really cheap
because you just have to store the ash
on the edge of each branch so it's like
a string branch
so it's appreciate because we still have
this problem of gas costs on on Assyrian
while the idea obviously is to
decentralized architecture as much as
possible I get up for obvious reason I
know we all know I mean we all know it's
being built by Microsoft it's a major
central point of filo I mean if that
goes down vertically oversaw kind of
so it's a real it's a real
problem and yeah the idea that if you
use pondo you actually own your dow we
don't rely on any token either our gun
actually the reason other than token use
for governance but you are not forced to
use this token because in Oregon down so
you own your Dow you own your repo you
have no single point of failure it's and
four syllables so let's let's for the
goal the other point about the
decentralization is a political
centralization or let's say the
organizational centralization I mean
there are lots of problem in the open
source because it's time for now one of
each being okay there is not too much
more incentives for opens those
developers to contribute to repositories
because are not recognized
I mean you naming that being last in the
list of all the contributions in the
repo which is not super super super nice
and even for the maintainer it's a pain
because obviously it's a job you for
free and you end up giving to maintain
tons of stuff and can be pretty pretty
quickly time consuming and we've seen
the problem
a couple of months ago with this veneer
ability in a crypto library on NPM where
a guy took other maintenance to believe
the formula in general and
just injected under ability so I sing
Chris's this is a really a problem the
ID respond with tried to decentralize as
much as possible this maintain our work
and to provide recognition and since
leaves to our contributors so how does
it work well medically if you don't only
push writes on the repo this is
automatically when you want critical to
see the typical open some kind of public
quests and though it's not likely
request because it's not been able to
merge automatically none change for
these reasons but more push requests
let's say and so your push request can
be you know reviewed and it's accepted
then this is gonna open what is called a
lineage request which is only made
requests for tokens to reward your
contribution to those people to
acknowledge this contribution to this
repo so all the best contribute elegant
be able to vote and that will be some
kind of wave votes to quantify the
importance of show contribution because
endlessly depending if it's my job
feature just a small typo correction
it's not the same so we can quantify the
value of the contribution this way and
with respect to sister broth with some
token or auto-ship token this token are
not meant to have immediately monetary
values are not meant to be exchanged on
secondary exchanges they are not even
meant to be people the mostly were
reputation token and they give you some
Authority in the mood to design a future
how are the fans gonna be in though
which pulley question we accept which
one should we reject how to quantify the
value of the following contribution
stuff like that so basically it helped
us this on July remains in our workflow
because all contributors gain authority
and reputation to the repo and can do
part of the maintenance process in the
decision process with respects to their
outsourcing share their reputation the
edge tokens into the repo icicle too
because it means that if at some points
you end up we will come for you repo
because
best friends because someone is willing
to pay you and stuff like that then you
can ultimately share the stones to all
with all the contributors will be as
respect to the number of units shook and
a helmet with respect to the reputation
they own and do this ripple the good
news is that and this is more of a
long-term plan but we're also working on
the license to make this work the
nearest site you can also declare your
software dependency as you can grant a
lineage token or reputation to your to
our dependencies so for instance you can
make it so that when you you publish an
open-source library and people use it
you can claim some authorship in this
repos can be granted to them so that if
at some points any of your dependencies
or any of the repo using in your library
have a different see I didn't come and
share it's fairly then it will be shared
up to the edge to the difference tree up
to you so it kind of so it's not solving
but it helps solving the problem of the
open source sustainability system
the other thing is that this upon dosing
is built on top of Paragon so I don't
know if you guys are familiar with it
but basically Aragon is Dao framework
helps you build modular house on top of
aetherium with fountains and let's say
Intel variability between all the
contracts comprising V Dow it's pretty
low in 2004 so this means you can do
tons of sing-off for instance you can
decide of your governance team example
of given about deciding which pull
request to accept which for requests to
reject and stuff like that in the
default version of Pandu it's like
particular basic votes
system so people can vote with respect
to the reputation they only to the repo
but you can implement any kind of
governance system you want so for
instance there are people developing our
Fatah key so you can delegate decision
power to I don't know ability market or
something like that
I don't know if it's relevant for any
kind of people but you can the other
thing is that you can
the fundraising or Die Co library that
Aragon is providing actually we are the
one that broke in this libraries too
which is called a puri so this will
allow any kind of open source people to
easily oh it will be like a click
operation to spawn some kind of a
fundraising system or dice your system
where people can put money into your
repo and then kind of decide and vote
about at what pace at what speed you're
gonna be alone to to spend this money
you found your work and you say realize
that you don't mission then you can
lower the top and stuff like that
and basically you can do whatever we
want because our again is pretty much it
also you can install anything you want
so it's it I don't know if we have time
for a demo or if it's too long we do
have time for a demo okay blue so right
well you'll see my terminal window now
no it still doesn't know you're not
seeing the terminal window
oh yeah okay now you see the terminal
okay cool so here basically so on the
CLI side fondue is just a key to Moodle
pearls that I guess you guys are
familiar with because lots of depth
based on IP FS and a small I get
extension so basically that allows you
to do to deploy new dau like think of
this des of a github organization so
everything is running on local - Jenga
but everything is going to be deployed
on rinkeby test net probably next week
so you're going to be able to play with
it easily so yeah you can just deploy a
dau or an organization in a very
conservative organization so I see
you can't see it now but medically it's
integrated with frame and frame is a
desktop signer for aetherium so you can
sign transaction from your desktop which
is pretty cool here we have this this
this dress I need to change okay so now
this is the elegant front end so I can
just fast the address of my browser and
this is gonna load so this is basically
elegant front end which is the front end
for your dau in your your application so
you are talking my church to distribute
token so I know they want to be in took
in there you have a finance app if you
want to make transfers as you are the
furnishing are kind of explain you what
are the permissions granted on top of
every contract I know we have this
crummy half which is the application
from which we are gonna we're gonna
sorry it's a factory for the
repositories and unchain so we can
deploy a new repository there let's call
it how to and give it with all
description so we have this kind of nice
what's that description which are
provided by Argonne
okay now this is deployed so here is my
reporter I know I can go and see my repo
so just be there is nothing there just a
beta stating now let me go back to the
terminal
so it's just kind of a mess to change my
window all the time okay so we can also
deploy repo directly from the Shilla if
you prefer so let's go it's like an OS
the same I need
complexion there and okay don't know
let's make just a small okay it's
greater geeks repo their so now I can
just add the address of this we go and
just edit a drink so get removed add
that oh I forgot to give it a nice
little back okay and now we can just
create a small okay and now I can just
push origin master as you used to
so now we have medically lon oh the IPF
SMI lazy still going on it's like a
internet buddy
and the transactions are register on
chain and so I need to switch windows
and that's gonna be done
[Music]
okay so now if I go back there yes you
can see that now I have aa one branch
one commits pretty V we haven't put them
in secret in fishing so and modern
wondering so it's like you over you job
with your get up stuff and no we have
obviously now it's super simple which we
have called building interface have you
seen being directly fetch from ipfs I
would just have one branch there but you
can have as many branches you want you
can also go through all your commit even
though there is just one there so it's
not super interesting but uh everything
that so what we have to do now is we are
working on the front end for the pull
request from lineage request system I
was able to push there because I moved
one deploying the report so I add the
rights I add the permission to push you
can eat there you know why this is my
permission
push commits and this is my dress if I
adding the permission that it would have
open a pull request genetically so we
still have to implement the interface
for that but it's gonna be the the week
I guess so we're gonna be able to
publish on the rinkeby list next week
for everyone to play we invest and yeah
that's it I stopped talking that was
great thank you
thanks okay first my apologies my
computer is starting over again and I'm
back and this time for questions
questions and comments so if you have a
question please put it in the chat box
I have a question I wasn't here for the
whole presentation but can you tell me a
bit more about the financial model
behind panda like the economic model and
if you've worked on that if that's part
of the you I get just curious
you
regarding our all economic model we have
no I don't know how to be more serious
actually we've got approached by a
couple of other companies for funding
and stuff like that but we didn't want
to tokenized on the weather protocol
because it would have make no sense you
know I can't suppose to be a public
infrastructure in the public or anyone
can use still yeah it's supposed to be
free so we don't want to monetize it
Stephanie any yeah so yeah we've been
lucky to be funded by a grant from
Aragon and actually we're trying to
become full-time Harrigan team so all
see how things go in the next couple of
weeks
the idea is to integrate ponder was
like.he as possible in the wagon stock
and for the boundary post people using
Paulo and also us at some point yes we
are working on a kind of a fundraising
application which is basically a Bondi
ink of a application so it's a domestic
market mayor where you can buy tokens of
the repo and sell we sell is talking to
the same these very same contracts so
basically it's like the way for people
to invest in the repo in expectation
that if more people invest in it they
may have small benefits out of it but it
can also work as a donation system where
people just okay I love this library
this open-source library I'm gonna give
money to it and then it's gonna be one
click away because everything's gonna be
automatically happening unchain the idea
that we are trying to make this
fundraising system more fair to avoid
scan let's say so basically this is more
of a dye Co schemes so basically the
people who are invested are gonna have
the rights to decide at what speeds or
found self invested can be used and we
can be spent by the repo owners so if
someone raised it is I don't know 1
million even though it's not gonna be
most of the repos just a but you can't
just take 1 million and leave because
he's gonna be able to spend maybe one
k-- a week or something like that and
the investors unit to cut
moving nothing happened you can just
think like their friends at some point
and no one can leave with all the funds
pretty quickly so oh thank you for the
comprehensive answer I was speaking more
to you when you answer this question of
the financial incentives for open source
so if there is an open source project
that you like you're able to donate it
and from your explanation I'm not
mistaken the project would not take the
donation and one lump sum they will take
it in intervals is that right and also
about the open sustainability I don't
know if you we're back at the thorns but
basically the idea that you can declare
and at some point we would like to make
it's kind of monetary but we need a
license system for that so we are
working with people from the Creative
Commons movements and stuff like that to
donate but the idea will be to make it
impossible that people using your
library and being hosted on pondo will
need to declare you as a software
dependency and grant you some reputation
some image tokens so let's do the game
and income then they have to share it
with you somehow so if people use your
library somehow and people use your
library I don't make any money out of it
since 5 but if people usually and make
money out of it then at some point they
have to share it with you so that's
thank you do we have any more questions
um I have a question and I don't have a
lot of background information on this
but I was curious when you were showing
us the demo you showed us a Steiner
like you showed us a signer for signing
a transaction could you talk a little
bit more about the signing of
transactions I've only done it like to
admit about yeah
so this signer system is called frame if
they're a and so it's a desktop level
signing system which is developed by
someone called John she's doing a pretty
good job
he's also the recipient often an
arrogant nest I'd rent so it fits
that's how it's funded and basically
what is frame it's like a desktop little
sign of stuff so that was you to sign
any kind of transaction can come from
the border it also works but it can also
come from any desktop application
including CLI application and yes
basically it's working with any kind of
I mean Twitter and ledger art where
wallet you can also put private key neat
if you want but it's mostly made to work
with other where well it's and yes it's
like a meta mask for this stuff let it
go is so it's pretty powerful and also
they are working on making some
integration a title integration we are
gong to have this right spec
descriptions for instance which is some
careful languages description languages
Allegan has been because to describe
what you describe to any other what is
your it's Indian transaction doing in a
human readable way and also integrate
with well it's called the identification
on Aragon basically you're gonna be able
to forward intent or act on the
blockchain
other member of down so let's say I have
a repo and I want to vote in another
repo under the name of this first repo I
can use the address of my online to sign
a transaction it will automatically
forward this in
to the data and ask people to vote on it
and if everyone wants to do it then it's
gonna sign the stuff and so it helps me
acting I'm the alpha down somehow so
this is pretty powerful thank you let's
see um we it's already time um thank you
so much for your presentation
it looks and before we go I also wanted
to thank Jim for taking notes and hm and
we'll see everyone next week at the next
ipfs weekly meet a weekly call thank you
and have a great week bye bye Ron Ron